README.rst, before:

Archives Hub
============

10th April 2013 (2013-04-10)


Contents
--------

-  `Description`_
-  `Authors`_
-  `Latest Version`_
-  `Installation`_
-  `Requirements / Dependencies`_
-  `Documentation`_
-  `Roadmap`_
-  `Bugs, Feature requests etc.`_
-  `Licensing`_
-  `Use`_

   -  `Loading Data`_
   
      -  `Batch Loading`_
      -  `Using the Admin Console`_
      
   -  `Searching`_
   
      -  `Using the Web App`_
      -  `Using the SRU API`_
      
         -  `Available Indexes`_
         -  `Available Record Schemas`_
         -  `Disabling SRU`_
         
      -  `Harvesting Using OAI-PMH`_
      
         -  `Available Record Schemas (Metadata Prefixes)`_
         -  `Available Sets`_
         -  `Disabling OAI-PMH`_


Description
-----------

The `Archives Hub`_ is an online gateway to the descriptions of archives held
in UK repositories (such as universities, company archives and local history
centres). It does not hold any archive material itself but provides a means to
cross-search archival descriptions from different institutions.

This repository is a specialized fork of `Cheshire3 for Archives`_ to support
the multiple repository cross-search nature of the `Archives Hub`_. If you're
looking for software to provide searching and delivering EAD documents via the
web, then please have a look at `Cheshire3 for Archives`_ first.

Both the `Archives Hub`_ and `Cheshire3 for Archives`_ feature:

*  Full document and component indexing to item level
*  Customisable search and display web-interface
*  Faceted result browsing
*  Subject clustering / Entry Level Vocabulary
*  SRU and OAI-PMH APIs


Authors
-------

Cheshire3 Team at the `University of Liverpool`_:

* **John Harrison** john.harrison@liv.ac.uk
* Catherine Smith

(Current maintainer in **bold**)


Latest Version
--------------

Source code is under version control and available from:

http://github.com/cheshire3/archiveshub

Development in the GitHub repository will follow (at least to begin with) 
Vincent Driessen's branching model, and use `git-flow`_ to facilitate this.
For details of the model, see:

http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/

Accordingly, the ``master`` branch is stable and contains the most recent
release of the software; development should take place in (or by creating a
new ``feature/...`` branch from) the ``develop`` branch.


Installation
------------

TBC


Requirements / Dependencies
---------------------------

The Archives Hub requires a working installation of Cheshire3, with the 
optional web and sql feature packs - this requirement should be automatically 
resolved during installation.

Cheshire3_ requires Python_ 2.6.0 or later. It has not yet been verified as 
Python_ 3 compliant.

`Archives Hub`_ should be compatible with any Unix-like O/S. At the  present
time it has not been tested on any Microsoft Windows O/S.


Documentation
-------------

All scripts intended for use by administrative users should return help when 
passed the `--help` option.

Further documentation for developers can be found in the docs/ folder of the  
distribution. Before starting work on any of the sub-systems (search, display,
admin, editor etc.) developers should read any relevant documentation in the 
docs/ directory.


Roadmap
-------

**Version 3.2 – June 2013**

* Centralized architecture, centred around the version-controlled data
* Persistent Unique Identifiers (and therefore URIs) based on ``<unitid>``s
* WSGI_ Applications for Search and Display
* Search within descriptions
* Editable configurations in standard INI-like format


**Version 3.3 – December 2013**

* Administration Interface

**Version 3.4 - ???**

* Support for `EAD Schema`_ ?
* Support for `EAC-CPF`_ ?


Bugs, Feature requests etc.
---------------------------

TBC


Licensing
---------

Copyright &copy; 2005-2013, the `University of Liverpool`_.
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

- Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, 
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
- Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, 
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation 
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
- Neither the name of the `University of Liverpool`_ nor the names of its 
  contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this 
  software without specific prior written permission.
 
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" 
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE 
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE 
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE 
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL 
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR 
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER 
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, 
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE 
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.


Use
---

Loading Data
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Batch Loading
'''''''''''''

TBC


Using the Admin Console
'''''''''''''''''''''''

1. Create an administration account

   1. Change directory to (repository-directory)/dbs/ead
   
   2. Run the command::
   
       python run.py -adduser
       
   3. Follow the prompts for provide the required info
    
2. See the admin console help page at:

   http://(your-host)/ead/admin/help.html#files_upload


Searching
~~~~~~~~~

Using the Web App
'''''''''''''''''

Navigate to the following address in the web-browser:

http://(your-host)/search/

A help page is available at:

http://(your-host)/search/help.html#search


Using the SRU API
'''''''''''''''''

A complete guide to using the SRU interface is beyond the scope of this 
document. For details about the SRU protocol see:

http://www.loc.gov/standards/sru/

The base URI for the SRU interface will be:

http://(your-host)/api/sru/ead


Available Indexes
`````````````````

rec.identifier
  Internal identifiers for each record. The values in this index are those 
  used to generate persistent unique URLs for each of the descriptions.

cql.anywhere
  All keywords from all records, regardless of their position within records. 
  Using the = relation means search for a phrase in this index.

dc.description
  Keywords from specific areas of records that give a good representation of 
  what the records is about. This includes titles, subjects and description 
  of the scope and content of the collect/item in question. Using the = 
  relation means search for a phrase in this index.

dc.title
  Precise titles and keywords from titles. Using the exact relation will 
  search for the full and precise title (wildcard are permitted), whereas 
  the other relations will search for keywords, = meaning search for a 
  phrase.

dc.identifier
  Unit identifier, or reference number assigned to a collection or item by 
  the cataloguer. Using the any or all relations will match partial 
  identifiers, assuming that they are separated by a non alpha-numerical 
  character.

dc.creator
  The name of the creator of the collection or item, as recorded by the 
  cataloguer.

dc.subject
  Subjects or topics, as assigned by the cataloguer.

bath.name
  Names of things, people, organizations or places.

bath.personalName
  Names of people.

bath.familyName
  Names of families (surnames)

bath.corporateName
  Names of any organizations, corporations or groups.

bath.geographicName
  Names of places, towns, regions, countries etc.

bath.genreForm
  Types of media represented in the collection or item, e.g. photographs, 
  audio recordings etc.

dc.date
  Significant dates, most commonly the date of creation of the material.

rec.creationDate
  The date and time at which the record was inserted into the database. 
  Please note that this is not the same as the date the EAD description was 
  created, nor is it guaranteed to remain unaltered; occasionally it may be 
  necessary to completely recreate the indexes, which will result in the 
  record creation time being updated.

rec.lastModifiedDate
  The date and time at which the index entries for the description were last 
  updated. Please note that this is not necessarily the same as the date the 
  content of the record was modified, nor does it guaranteed that the record 
  was actually altered at this time; occasionally it may be necessary to 
  reindex, which will result in the last modification time being updated, 
  as it is not practical to test every record for the presence of actual 
  modifications.

ead.istoplevel
  Values in this index are all 1. This index is used as a filter to 
  discriminate collections from the items contained within them.
    
    
Available Record Schemas
````````````````````````

ead
  info:srw/schema/1/ead-2002
  EAD 2002 – DTD Version

dc, srw_dc
  info:srw/schema/1/dc-v1.1
  Simple Dublin Core Elements (inside an srw_dc wrapper)

oai_dc
  http://www.openarchives.org/OAI/2.0/oai_dc/
  Simple Dublin Core Elements (inside an oai_dc wrapper)
    
    
    
Disabling SRU
`````````````

It is possible to disable the SRU Interface:

1. Change directory to (repository-directory)/dbs/ead

2. Open the file config.xml

3. Change the line that reads:

    `<setting type="srw">1</setting>`

    to

    `<setting type="srw">0</setting>`


Harvesting Using OAI-PMH
''''''''''''''''''''''''

A complete guide to using the OAI-PMH interface is beyond the scope of this 
document. For details about the OAI-PMH protocol see:

http://www.openarchives.org/

The base URI for the SRU interface will be:

http://(your-host)/api/OAI-PMH/2.0/ead


Available Record Schemas (Metadata Prefixes)
````````````````````````````````````````````

*   oai_dc

    http://www.openarchives.org/OAI/2.0/oai_dc/

    Simple Dublin Core Elements (inside an oai_dc wrapper)

*   srw_dc

    info:srw/schema/1/dc-v1.1

    Simple Dublin Core Elements (inside an srw_dc wrapper)
    
*   ead

    info:srw/schema/1/ead-2002

    EAD 2002 – DTD Version


Available Sets
``````````````

There is no set hierarchy defined - this OAI-PMH interface does not support 
selective harvesting by sets.


Disabling OAI-PMH
`````````````````

It is possible to disable the OAI-PMH Interface:

1. Change directory to (repository-directory)/dbs/ead

2. Open the file config.xml

3. Change the line that reads:

    `<setting type="oai-pmh">1</setting>`

    to

    `<setting type="oai-pmh">0</setting>`


.. Links
.. _Python: http://www.python.org/
.. _Apache: http://httpd.apache.org 
.. _`University of Liverpool`: http://www.liv.ac.uk
.. _`Cheshire3`: http://cheshire3.org
.. _`Cheshire3 Information Framework`: http://cheshire3.org
.. _`Cheshire3 for Archives`: https://github.com/cheshire3/cheshire3-archives
.. _`Archives Hub`: http://archiveshub.ac.uk
.. _`EAD Editor`: http://archiveshub.ac.uk/eadeditor/
.. _WSGI: http://wsgi.org
.. _`EAD Schema`: http://www.loc.gov/ead/eadschema.html
.. _`EAC-CPF`: http://eac.staatsbibliothek-berlin.de/
.. _`git-flow`: https://github.com/nvie/gitflow

Commit message:

update README with details of Sphinx documentation

README.rst, after:

Archives Hub
============

10th April 2013 (2013-04-10)


Contents
--------

-  `Description`_
-  `Authors`_
-  `Latest Version`_
-  `Installation`_
-  `Requirements / Dependencies`_
-  `Documentation`_
-  `Roadmap`_
-  `Bugs, Feature requests etc.`_
-  `Licensing`_
-  `Use`_

   -  `Loading Data`_
   
      -  `Batch Loading`_
      -  `Using the Admin Console`_
      
   -  `Searching`_
   
      -  `Using the Web App`_
      -  `Using the SRU API`_
      
         -  `Available Indexes`_
         -  `Available Record Schemas`_
         -  `Disabling SRU`_
         
      -  `Harvesting Using OAI-PMH`_
      
         -  `Available Record Schemas (Metadata Prefixes)`_
         -  `Available Sets`_
         -  `Disabling OAI-PMH`_


Description
-----------

The `Archives Hub`_ is an online gateway to the descriptions of archives held
in UK repositories (such as universities, company archives and local history
centres). It does not hold any archive material itself but provides a means to
cross-search archival descriptions from different institutions.

This repository is a specialized fork of `Cheshire3 for Archives`_ to support
the multiple repository cross-search nature of the `Archives Hub`_. If you're
looking for software to provide searching and delivering EAD documents via the
web, then please have a look at `Cheshire3 for Archives`_ first.

Both the `Archives Hub`_ and `Cheshire3 for Archives`_ feature:

*  Full document and component indexing to item level
*  Customisable search and display web-interface
*  Faceted result browsing
*  Subject clustering / Entry Level Vocabulary
*  SRU and OAI-PMH APIs


Authors
-------

Cheshire3 Team at the `University of Liverpool`_:

* **John Harrison** john.harrison@liv.ac.uk
* Catherine Smith

(Current maintainer in **bold**)


Latest Version
--------------

Source code is under version control and available from:

http://github.com/cheshire3/archiveshub

Development in the GitHub repository will follow (at least to begin with) 
Vincent Driessen's branching model, and use `git-flow`_ to facilitate this.
For details of the model, see:

http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/

Accordingly, the ``master`` branch is stable and contains the most recent
release of the software; development should take place in (or by creating a
new ``feature/...`` branch from) the ``develop`` branch.


Installation
------------

TBC


Requirements / Dependencies
---------------------------

The Archives Hub requires a working installation of Cheshire3, with the 
optional web and sql feature packs - this requirement should be automatically 
resolved during installation.

Cheshire3_ requires Python_ 2.6.0 or later. It has not yet been verified as 
Python_ 3 compliant.

`Archives Hub`_ should be compatible with any Unix-like O/S. At the  present
time it has not been tested on any Microsoft Windows O/S.


Documentation
-------------

HTML documentation can be generate using the command::

    python setup.py build_sphinx


The generated HTML documentation can then be found in docs/build/html/.

All scripts intended for use by administrative users should return help when 
passed the `--help` option.


Roadmap
-------

**Version 3.2 – June 2013**

* Centralized architecture, centred around the version-controlled data
* Persistent Unique Identifiers (and therefore URIs) based on ``<unitid>``s
* WSGI_ Applications for Search and Display
* Search within descriptions
* Editable configurations in standard INI-like format


**Version 3.3 – December 2013**

* Administration Interface

**Version 3.4 - ???**

* Support for `EAD Schema`_ ?
* Support for `EAC-CPF`_ ?


Bugs, Feature requests etc.
---------------------------

TBC


Licensing
---------

Copyright &copy; 2005-2013, the `University of Liverpool`_.
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

- Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, 
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
- Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, 
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation 
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
- Neither the name of the `University of Liverpool`_ nor the names of its 
  contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this 
  software without specific prior written permission.
 
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" 
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE 
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE 
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE 
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL 
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR 
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER 
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, 
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE 
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.


Use
---

Loading Data
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Batch Loading
'''''''''''''

TBC


Using the Admin Console
'''''''''''''''''''''''

1. Create an administration account

   1. Change directory to (repository-directory)/dbs/ead
   
   2. Run the command::
   
       python run.py -adduser
       
   3. Follow the prompts for provide the required info
    
2. See the admin console help page at:

   http://(your-host)/ead/admin/help.html#files_upload


Searching
~~~~~~~~~

Using the Web App
'''''''''''''''''

Navigate to the following address in the web-browser:

http://(your-host)/search/

A help page is available at:

http://(your-host)/search/help.html#search


Using the SRU API
'''''''''''''''''

A complete guide to using the SRU interface is beyond the scope of this 
document. For details about the SRU protocol see:

http://www.loc.gov/standards/sru/

The base URI for the SRU interface will be:

http://(your-host)/api/sru/ead


Available Indexes
`````````````````

rec.identifier
  Internal identifiers for each record. The values in this index are those 
  used to generate persistent unique URLs for each of the descriptions.

cql.anywhere
  All keywords from all records, regardless of their position within records. 
  Using the = relation means search for a phrase in this index.

dc.description
  Keywords from specific areas of records that give a good representation of 
  what the records is about. This includes titles, subjects and description 
  of the scope and content of the collect/item in question. Using the = 
  relation means search for a phrase in this index.

dc.title
  Precise titles and keywords from titles. Using the exact relation will 
  search for the full and precise title (wildcard are permitted), whereas 
  the other relations will search for keywords, = meaning search for a 
  phrase.

dc.identifier
  Unit identifier, or reference number assigned to a collection or item by 
  the cataloguer. Using the any or all relations will match partial 
  identifiers, assuming that they are separated by a non alpha-numerical 
  character.

dc.creator
  The name of the creator of the collection or item, as recorded by the 
  cataloguer.

dc.subject
  Subjects or topics, as assigned by the cataloguer.

bath.name
  Names of things, people, organizations or places.

bath.personalName
  Names of people.

bath.familyName
  Names of families (surnames)

bath.corporateName
  Names of any organizations, corporations or groups.

bath.geographicName
  Names of places, towns, regions, countries etc.

bath.genreForm
  Types of media represented in the collection or item, e.g. photographs, 
  audio recordings etc.

dc.date
  Significant dates, most commonly the date of creation of the material.

rec.creationDate
  The date and time at which the record was inserted into the database. 
  Please note that this is not the same as the date the EAD description was 
  created, nor is it guaranteed to remain unaltered; occasionally it may be 
  necessary to completely recreate the indexes, which will result in the 
  record creation time being updated.

rec.lastModifiedDate
  The date and time at which the index entries for the description were last 
  updated. Please note that this is not necessarily the same as the date the 
  content of the record was modified, nor does it guaranteed that the record 
  was actually altered at this time; occasionally it may be necessary to 
  reindex, which will result in the last modification time being updated, 
  as it is not practical to test every record for the presence of actual 
  modifications.

ead.istoplevel
  Values in this index are all 1. This index is used as a filter to 
  discriminate collections from the items contained within them.
    
    
Available Record Schemas
````````````````````````

ead
  info:srw/schema/1/ead-2002
  EAD 2002 – DTD Version

dc, srw_dc
  info:srw/schema/1/dc-v1.1
  Simple Dublin Core Elements (inside an srw_dc wrapper)

oai_dc
  http://www.openarchives.org/OAI/2.0/oai_dc/
  Simple Dublin Core Elements (inside an oai_dc wrapper)
    
    
    
Disabling SRU
`````````````

It is possible to disable the SRU Interface:

1. Change directory to (repository-directory)/dbs/ead

2. Open the file config.xml

3. Change the line that reads:

    `<setting type="srw">1</setting>`

    to

    `<setting type="srw">0</setting>`


Harvesting Using OAI-PMH
''''''''''''''''''''''''

A complete guide to using the OAI-PMH interface is beyond the scope of this 
document. For details about the OAI-PMH protocol see:

http://www.openarchives.org/

The base URI for the SRU interface will be:

http://(your-host)/api/OAI-PMH/2.0/ead


Available Record Schemas (Metadata Prefixes)
````````````````````````````````````````````

*   oai_dc

    http://www.openarchives.org/OAI/2.0/oai_dc/

    Simple Dublin Core Elements (inside an oai_dc wrapper)

*   srw_dc

    info:srw/schema/1/dc-v1.1

    Simple Dublin Core Elements (inside an srw_dc wrapper)
    
*   ead

    info:srw/schema/1/ead-2002

    EAD 2002 – DTD Version


Available Sets
``````````````

There is no set hierarchy defined - this OAI-PMH interface does not support 
selective harvesting by sets.


Disabling OAI-PMH
`````````````````

It is possible to disable the OAI-PMH Interface:

1. Change directory to (repository-directory)/dbs/ead

2. Open the file config.xml

3. Change the line that reads:

    `<setting type="oai-pmh">1</setting>`

    to

    `<setting type="oai-pmh">0</setting>`


.. Links
.. _Python: http://www.python.org/
.. _Apache: http://httpd.apache.org 
.. _`University of Liverpool`: http://www.liv.ac.uk
.. _`Cheshire3`: http://cheshire3.org
.. _`Cheshire3 Information Framework`: http://cheshire3.org
.. _`Cheshire3 for Archives`: https://github.com/cheshire3/cheshire3-archives
.. _`Archives Hub`: http://archiveshub.ac.uk
.. _`EAD Editor`: http://archiveshub.ac.uk/eadeditor/
.. _WSGI: http://wsgi.org
.. _`EAD Schema`: http://www.loc.gov/ead/eadschema.html
.. _`EAC-CPF`: http://eac.staatsbibliothek-berlin.de/
.. _`git-flow`: https://github.com/nvie/gitflow
